
INSTALLATION
------------

For the impatient:

- back up your existing xfm library directory if necessary

- take a look at Imake.options and edit it as needed

- run `xmkmf; make Makefiles; make; make install; make install.man'

If everything goes smoothly, you should have an xfm binary installed in your X
bin directory, along with some other stuff (note the directories may not be
identical on your system, it is up to imake to install these things in the
correct place):

/usr/X11/bin/xfm.install		The user setup installation script
/usr/X11/bin/xfmtype			Juan D. Martin's xfmtype program
/usr/X11/lib/X11/xfm/
	bitmaps				Some example bitmaps
	pixmaps				Some example pixmaps
	icons				New 3d-look pixmaps (see below)
	dot.xfm				Default config files (for xfm.install)
/usr/X11/lib/X11/app-defaults/Xfm	application defaults for xfm
/usr/X11/man/man1/xfm.1			the xfm manual page
/usr/X11/man/man1/xfmtype.1		manual page for the xfmtype program

If everything didn't go smoothly, you may have to make xfm in the src
subdirectory separately, and/or install things by hand.

To complete the installation, you will probably wish to edit the default
configuration files and the application defaults file to reflect your local
configuration. Also you might wish to manually install additional icons and
other stuff from the contrib dir.

Good luck! :-)


*** IMPORTANT ***

If you are a seasoned xfm 1.3 user, you should note the following:

- You probably shouldn't install over an existing xfm library directory
  (/usr/X11/lib/X11/xfm or similar). Rather delete or rename your existing xfm
  libdir first.

- When xfm is started by the user for the first time (i.e., the ~/.xfm dir
  does not yet exist), it now displays a dialog which allows the user to
  run the xfm.install script, which installs the default configuration
  files in the user's home directory. I was told that this would really
  be a relief for sysadmins of large sites with hundreds or even thousands of
  users. ;-)

- As distributed, xfm is now set up to use the alternative configuration files
  and icons in the contrib/3dicons dir (see also the comments regarding the
  USE_3DICONS option in the NOTES section below). Unfortunately, the new setup
  is *not* entirely backward-compatible. Thus, if you're upgrading from xfm
  1.3.2 and would like to reuse your old setup, you might wish to comment out
  the USE_3DICONS option in the Imake.options file. Xfm will then use the old-
  fashioned standard setup from previous releases, and you should be able to
  use existing configuration files without any changes.

- Please note that application defaults files from older xfm versions will not
  work with the new version; you have to install the new one. Xfm will ensure
  this by checking the new "appDefsVersion" resource.

For further details please refer to the `NOTES' section below.


NOTES
-----

As distributed, xfm is set up to work with Arnaud Le Hors' XPM library. It can
still be compiled and run without this library, if you comment out the #define
XPM in Imake.options, but then you will have to edit the configuration files
(xfmrc, Apps, etc.) to replace the pixmap icons by bitmaps (a few are supplied
in the bitmaps directory). Versions of the XPM library less than 3.3 appear
not to work.

Other options which can be controlled by corresponding #define's in
Imake.options are XAW3D (which causes linkage with the Xaw3d library, and also
adds some Xaw3d-specific lines to the applications default file) and
MAGIC_HEADERS (which causes the magic headers code to be included, and also
determines the standard xfmrc file to be installed on your system). Both are
now enabled by default.

Till Straumann's 1.4 extensions (which are all enabled by default) can be
controlled by means of a bunch of #define's in the Imake.options file; see
README-1.4 for further information. I strongly recommend that you leave all
these features enabled, unless you encounter compilation problems in these
parts. Otherwise xfm should still function, but many things won't work exactly
as described in the manpage.

---------------------

If xfm is compiled and installed with the USE_3DICONS option in the
Imake.options file enabled (which is the default), then additional icon
pixmaps will be installed in the icon subdir of the xfm library directory, and
an alternative set of standard configuration files in the dot.xfm
subdir. Moreover, this option changes some lines in the Xfm app-defaults file
and causes xfm's built-in icons to be replaced with pixmaps from the
3dicons/icons subdir.

When using this option, you should make sure that users delete or rename their
old .xfm directory s.t. xfm installs the new configuration files. (On larger
sites, this could also be handled automatically with an appropriate
xfm.install script.)

IMHO, the new setup looks a lot nicer than the old one, but, as already
mentioned, you might wish to disable this option, e.g., when upgrading an
existing xfm 1.3.2 installation. Note that the USE_3DICONS option is also
disabled automatically if you compile xfm without the XPM or the MAGIC_HEADERS
option.

---------------------

Xfm 1.3 has been reported to compile and run successfully under Linux >=0.99,
BSDI 1.1, RS6000 with AIX 3.2.5 (using gcc), SUN workstations running SunOS
4.1 and Solaris 2.x, HP700 with HPUX 9.01, DECstation with Ultrix 4.3a, DEC
Alpha with OSF/1, SGI Indigo with IRIX 4.0.5F and 5.2. Up to now, the present
release has been tested on Linux 2.0.x (running XFree 3.3) and Solaris 2.4. We
are still interested in getting Xfm compiled on as many platforms as possible
(porting should be a piece of cake), so please continue to send us any patches
so that they can be included in future releases.

NOTE for SUN users and other people running ol[v]wm: In order to get double
clicks in xfm working, you may have to set olwm to the "focus-follows-mouse"
(rather than the "click-to-focus") mode. This can be done by setting the
SetInput resource to followmouse in your .OWdefaults file (see props(1)). In
click-to-focus mode double clicks in xfm won't work. I consider this a bug in
olwm, but if anybody has a fix to get double clicks working in click-to-focus
mode I'd like to hear about it.


